one what's up dude how are ya good how
are you first of all the game looks
fucking tell everybody who you are what
you do my name is Hugo Martin and I'm
the game director on doom eternal the
dragon let me tell you something folks
we Hugo just played some of Doom eternal
he showed us the game and show and ran
through the some of the first level holy
fuck god damn it's so next level
it's so next level graphics it's cooks
everything about it like the weapons the
demons the the way you kill them it's
the most violent thing I've ever seen in
my life
it's awesome it's so addictive but it's
like it seems like it's okay because
it's violence against demons yeah
totally and and we we we work hard on
that like you never there's no cursing
that I have three kids there's no
cursing there's no sex I do want it to
be something that my nine-year-old could
play don't you think it's kind of crazy
that you could rip people's heads off
you could shove their arm down their
throat you could cut them in half that's
fine just don't use any of those naughty
words kids yes because I was joking with
some of the other day it's like when I'm
with my kids like he's not gonna go to
somebody and like glory kill them but
when someone says glory kill is because
it sounds too much like glory hole we're
gonna get really confused so in the game
when you damage a demon enough they will
glow with like a shader on them and that
means you can go in to do a melee
finisher basically which is like a melee
attack and you'll get help from it and
there there's really really cool and
melee we should explain is like with
your own hands yes rip them apart or cut
them in half with a sword or a chainsaw
yes and no crazy like when my kids see
that they're not going to do that but
when they hear someone use the f-word
they're like oh I could use that in
everyday life and and that sucks so very
interesting rationalization I'm not
buying it
but the game is awesome and it would be
cool if you had an r-rated mode that you
had to like enter in your security
numbers social security number or
something and unlock it it shows you're
over 21 or over 18 I feel like over 18
yeah and then you just hire your brother
dude get in here I'll give you five
bucks I'm like this bitch it's
cartoonish violence though you could see
it it's very much like a cartoon yeah
and again you're killing monsters yes
walking dead
spiked them in the head you can't do
that to a person on TV but you could do
it to his llama and their demons from
hell you're doing God's work you have to
yes that's right and we should explain
that doom was one of the very first 3d
games it was Castle Wolfenstein right
that was like the first one with its
software we've had Carmack in before
he's no longer with you software but who
is is will it still there no he's not
there god damn it no what the fuck bro
how is it it software Marty try name you
got a bunch of new people right away
listen whoever is running at they're
doing an amazing job because that game
looks sick and I'm scared I'm scared I'm
gonna get sucked into it it's awesome
the game first of all the gameplay and
then just the beginning sequence the
in-game like whole sequence looks like
like a CGI movie it doesn't look like
gameplay like remember when we used to
play games and he used to have that
opening scene there was like a video and
then it would go to the game game was
crude this game is exactly like the
opening scene which is so crazy
no pre-rendered that everything those
are the in-game assets that's how good
they are the team is like insane the
guys are true artists craftsmen you know
like they just go crazy on the details
and when you zoom in with the camera for
the cinematics they completely hold up
the rigging like it's like a feature
film it's nuts are you guys there it is
right now let's play the let's play the
the old jailer this is the old trailer
yeah this trailers good just play it for
people
and if you just listening you got to see
this on YouTube maybe like I'm a grown
up but up times of this shit I have an
IRA and a 401k and I have kids me too
bitch me too
simple your people will not bring you
peace when we make the burden carry
worse let me how we have survived made
other sacrifice in the name of our
you
[Music]
now if you're just listening this is
just annoying music and noise but if
you're watching it looks fucking sick
watch this
oh and then it is mayhem right Ned
angels those angels - oh Jesus
oh shit
so he's like the boss demon yeah
[Music]
god damn this looks good
doom eternal it looks I anticipate a
massive waste of time for people 320 so
that's when it comes out so yeah what's
that 9 days from now yes that guy if
you're Bruce Lee that is your Chuck
Norris yeah and you guys are gonna admit
the whole scene actually when you meet
him which is a little clip from that
it's really inspired by that scene is it
Enter the Dragon or return of the Dragon
when he fights Chuck Norris
I think it's enter dragon yes and I
think you know like when they square off
in the Coliseum yes you know he comes
out and he says some badass shit you
like look at me yeah that is great way
of the Dragon is it way of the Dragon or
for the Star Wars fans we say like it's
like you're obi-wan and that's your
Darth Maul okay I like the first I don't
know Star Wars has become too dignified
it doesn't really sync up with that that
fight is badass though between obi-wan
and Darth Maul yes oh man it's awesome
yeah that's pretty bad yeah that's
before I went to shit the fights and the
prequels were amazing yeah they were
really good
yes I've watched the one against obi-wan
and Anakin like a million times like I
love that one it's so good like when
they in the lava and shit and I just go
off on each other and like it's a mate
George described it in an interview that
it would be like you would be seeing
Jedi at their peak that that really in
the first three Star Wars films they
were not at their peak and then in the
prequels you would see them in their
prime you know like Hickson in his prime
so like it that's what's so cool about
that fight they're just going off on
each other it's amazing yeah well what
you guys have done is create something
that's gonna ruin people's lives I hope
you're really excited about massive
waste of time I mean we were talking
before the show about video games and
the addictive quality of video games I
have a real problem I just can't play
him that much yes I can dip my toe in
every now and then and then I shake my
head and I gotta go running or something
cuz otherwise it'll get the grip on me
yes they're too fun like there's no
movie that you're gonna watch it gives
you the kind of engagement that your
videogame does because you're like in
the movie yes
and it looks like a fucking movie now
and you see what the glory kills like
you are your own fight choreographer
you're sick of breaking the arm and
shoving it in his head then swing around
from behind and cut them in half you
know like do anything you are it's
awesome now as far as multiplayer
because I'm not really into playing
games the game game I'm into multiplayer
so you I promise if you play the
single-player what is unique about our
single-player is that it will give you
the same buzz that a multiplayer will
give you because your opponents this
time are the AI and that opening level
that's white belts you're messing with
like easy dudes the later on it will
continue to level up and as you saw like
that guy that comes out with the axe
like again he is he is as tough as you
are so you will get the same feeling
from the single player that you do from
a multiplayer that's not really possible
it's because when I like this duels I
like like like in quake champions I like
playing duels you know that's what's fun
for me like one-on-one like me and Jaime
would get barbecued and we'd come here
and we play for hours just one-on-one
you run around the map and collect your
rocket launchers and your ammo and armor
and shit and just fuck each other up we
have a multiplayer called battle mode
that is fucking awesome like it's really
really good and then is it like quake
multiplayer like no no it's it's
different it's very unique
the last multiplayer we made was not
super well-received it was a really
competent good multiplayer but it was
that I was just doomed 2016's
multiplayer experience but it really
wasn't innovative enough like fans
wanted to see us like do something new
so we basically took the single-player
experience that combat loop that you'll
master and then we we give you a way to
do it with your friends it's a 2v1 so to
be you know two of you guys versus one
guy gets to be the Slayer with all the
guns and it's really really cool and
then there's invasion
so like you'll play the single-player
campaign and then someone can become a
demon like Jamie could become a demon
and then invade you while you're playing
you won't know where he is and it'll
just come out and try to fuck with you
mmm like it's really cool but is there
any one-on-one multiplayer invasions
kind of one-on-one but battle mode the
closest we come to the one-on-one is 2v1
oh okay that's weird
why'd you side two versus one instead of
one versus one it's just unique you know
it's it's the balance there no one demon
can stand against the Slayer you know
the doom guy is all-powerful he's got
all these you know he's right here he's
got all the guns and the mods and he's
got eight
his bicep exposed it seems like a
vulnerability okay it's like that kind
of calm
pretty much if someone comes along cuts
his fucking arm off it seems like that's
a good spot to hit his arms are like
trees so like that they're made of jelly
doughnuts they're very they are so big
that in one scene he raises like a sword
and the bicep just like is it's absurdly
huge but but um that's cute but it's
still made out of meat that's true
that's true
the the I forgot what I was saying but
yes you think you can compete battle
mode is really good you really like it
yeah but why don't you have a one-on-one
because we just it didn't it just didn't
work out that way I think do you
anticipate anything like that in the
future like you never know like
certainly we'll see but but we're really
really proud of this like I think what
you want to do is you you got to
innovate if if you want to make
something that's really going to engage
people like that like the whole point is
to like give them something to master
that they've never seen before because
if you're just asking me to master a new
version of a thing that I already
mastered sure a lot of people would
appreciate that but you're not really
going to capture like a large audience
so we really created something that was
completely unique and so we're excited
that now is there gonna be a deathmatch
mode where like all of us can get in a
room and fuck each other up I know we we
have quick champions for that I know but
we already played quick champions I
won't play that I'm gonna use those
weapons well with that guy like this is
this the multiplayer this is the
multiplayer Jesus Christ looks crazy it
is nuts
that dude you the it's its kind of bait
based on a couple of core pillars of
like we needed something that had a lot
of drama we wanted something that I had
a lot of pacing like the variations and
pacing in the match and something with
deep strategy so and and was primarily
innovative like unlike anything any
anything anybody had played before and
was from like it's a multiplayer for
people who love doom eternal so I'll
play the doom eternal single-player
you'll you'll like this right it looks
so incredible it's it's fucking awesome
the graphics are so off the charts I
just wanna play this right now do I know
I'm looking at this video that Jamie's
plan showing the video of this guy
playing and it's just yeah it's
incredible so he's he's the Slayer
you're seeing through the Slayer right
now and those two demons that he's
shooting
the numbers coming out of them those are
the other guys now I don't think most
people understand the incredible amount
of work that's involved in creating one
of these things yes when did you guys
start on this about four years ago so
it's been four years of steady work to
make something and in nine days we're
gonna like give it to the world Lisa yes
I'm like I'm shake it off yeah oh my god
I'm so nervous I just cancelled III yes
everyone's scared like goddamn Corona
fire I know my wife says I'm gonna be in
quarantine at the house for two weeks
one cousin come here I think it needs to
be two weeks I think it's four days you
start showing sniffling already I'm just
like Oh semantics they say that it's
four days and you start exhibiting
symptoms so okay I coughed at the
airport and people looked at me like it
was I felt almost wanted to apologize I
was just clearing my throat and I didn't
cover my mouth and everybody was like
yeah it was yeah meanwhile The Comedy
Store was packed last night dude we went
to PAX East last week with the fans hunt
like lines of fans and the beginning
everybody was touching elbows that
lasted like 20 minutes and we were just
high five and it was the store last
night a couple guys were trying to give
you knuckles and get the fuck out of
here well they say I didn't watch that
show you it with that guy that you had
but 50 and up or something or like it's
the real problem as people with
respiratory issues people who are
overweight and and people who are old
those are those are the real problems
unhealthy people that's the real issue
that's gonna be the real issue although
Sam Harris did know a guy who's a skier
who is 50 who was apparently very
healthy and very fit and he was now on a
ventilator and he was in Italy I don't
know the specifics
you know sometimes look I've got the flu
before and I'm sure you have as well and
sometimes what happens is you're worn
down from travel you're worn down maybe
from drinking you warm down from too
much exercise and then it gets you and
then if you're not like and this is just
the common cold and apparently the
common cold is a type of corona virus I
don't know Google that make sure that's
true but I'm I'm pretty I was reading up
on corona viruses last night I was like
what like SARS is a type of Kuro
a virus is this just here now forever
like this is a part of the world like
coronavirus question well Michael
osterholm who wrote this book deadliest
enemy and who was on on Tuesday on the
podcast Tuesday he opened up a lot of
people's eyes as to like what what the
issue is and what what you can do to
prevent it but those wet markets that
they have in China are just bananas man
with the fucking bats on the tables and
Corona Vice our large family viruses
that cause illnesses ranging from the
common cold to more severe diseases such
as MERS severe or SARS a novel
coronavirus is a new strain that has not
been previously identified in humans so
zoonotic or zoonotic meaning they're
transmitted between animals and people
so what what's happening is these
fucking wet markets he was detailing how
they have chickens that are in one cage
and civets that are above the chickens
and the civets are shitting on the
chickens and chickens are eating the
civet shit and that's like goodness he's
like it's just a perfect environment to
create a disease it's gonna jump from
one species to the next that is scary
yeah and he's like and many of them have
jumped to humans I mean all the major
whether it's avian flu that's from birds
swine flu obviously from pigs they jump
from farm animals or from these wet
markets to people yeah and they're not
gonna stop those wet markets so it's
like I mean that's how people buy their
food which is just crazy have you ever
seen the videos and pictures of what
they look like over there no that seems
scary though you think your game is
scary let's see what a bat looks like
when it's laid on table
apparently bats are like a common thing
to eat and bro when you see what a bat
looks like with its mouth open it looks
like it belongs in your game that that
would be get the good reference we were
looking at pictures of them yesterday
and they have a table laid out and then
even not just on the raw concrete bats
laid out with their mouths open they
look cartoonish they don't even look
real and they have no wings yeah Jamie's
oh my god and over there look how big
these bats holy shit dude that looks
like a dog they do look like dogs or
dogs
like Christ those are dogs oh those are
bad so those are bad so look at the
teeth on the bats yeah that's really
that look at how they're all they all
have their mouths wide open like they're
trying to bite you
so they die trying to kill you and
they're gonna they're gonna cook those
yes now that is how this disease got
started look at that guy's and he's
working well go back to him again let me
trim he's triple stack in the behavior
stacks of bats smoking cigarettes like
they're eating bats that's crazy it's
just nuts man but this is what happens
we'll see Lily's chickens stacked on top
of each other when you have a billion
people and look at that guys sleeping on
top of that jet that should be in our
game actually yeah you're hungry eat a
bat you could glory kill that thing and
get health that would be good apparently
SARS came from bats as well so don't eat
bats kids I won't but they have to
because they're starving I mean that's
one of the things that China's doing
what they have to do there's too many
people not enough food and a lot of what
they're eating is just we wouldn't
imagine eating it are you are you not
traveling because of this not changing
shit yeah that's my wife asked me a lot
like she she was really concerned about
me coming here and I was like dude we go
we got a clle game so I just got back
from Vegas and I was a little nervous
walls over there but I did everything
normal I went to work out I you know I
ate went to the fights which is you know
20,000 people at the t-mobile Arena yeah
all stuffed into this one area and
everybody was acting normal everybody's
high five and a hug and then fighters I
mean Jesus Christ want talking about
people exposed yeah yeah you know
they're sweating and they're half-naked
Tyson Fury is trying to lick that dudes
blood I mean I don't think he's great
for those before the big outbreak yeah I
am I'm worried about old people I'm
worried about my parents for sure I'm
sure about I'm worried about people who
are overweight you know I have friends
that are not healthy that maybe she'd
lose some weight and I'm worried about
them I'm worried about people with
respiratory problems you know a good
friend of mine has a daughter a cystic
fibrosis know that's Ryan he cancelled
his tour shout out to every last he
canceled to his tour because of that I
mean but he's got you know a real
concern yeah his donors are pretty
serious
one condition that is really scared
horrible yeah and so look you know he's
got no choice he has to stay home and
and play it safe and I think a lot of
people gonna do that you know um it's
gonna be interesting to see how the
government handles it because one of
things about love or hate Trump he's
willing to do some shit that a lot of
people would think would be unpopular
like close down traffic yeah close down
flights coming in from other other
countries that are infected that have
higher rates of infection you know I
mean I wonder what they're gonna do and
something I think something really
radical has to be done to try to start
this slowdown this this fucking illness
but I don't know what they can do seems
like are we waiting for it to I gotta
watch your show with this guy are we
waiting for it to go away like I read a
quote that like when the weather changes
it'll it'll stop or something that's
horseshit
yeah Michael osterholm set it straight
on that that's nonsense he's like it's
not gonna have any effect on it what
happens is it just runs through the
population and people develop immune
systems that can handle it you develop
an immunity once you catch it and for
many people it's just gonna be like a
bad cold for many people it's gonna be
like you're coughing and you're and you
just you just try to get better stay
home drink a lot of fluids be healthy do
your best and eat healthy and then get
out you're gonna have an immunity to it
and that's what's gonna happen on the
other end I saw one guy he had it and it
was fairly mild and then the quarantine
and he got over it he was getting over
it and getting better and then they
quarantined him with a bunch of people
that also had it and he got it even
worse I'm interesting cuz I was like I
wonder how he got it again and I guess
probably his immunity wasn't fully
developed yeah and then it just
overwhelmed his immune system because
there was you know he's basically
quarantine with a bunch of other people
that were really really sick but he got
through it and he was talking about it
and all these poor people that are stuck
on boats oh my god it's crazy this is
gonna kill the cruise ship industry yeah
guarantee you that we just went on
vacation and I have to say traveling and
the like we went to this vacation spot
but there's nobody there it's actually
it's kind of nice oh yeah right now what
the whole beach do so we had everything
to ourselves it was amazing yeah I
wonder you know I wonder how this is
gonna play out I really do we go like
know you're even at our hotel eating at
the buffets and stuff but like to point
I'm just like fuck it what are we gonna
do they're closing down buffets it's one
of the things they're doing in Vegas
they're closing down buffets Hills
buffets are huge I haven't been to Vegas
too many times but the one time I was
there I had a pretty crazy buffet yeah I
mean all-you-can-eat just fucking pick
out yeah some of those buff but that's
also how they do it on a lot of cruise
ships they have buffets I only went on
one cruise ship and by the end I wanted
to throw up like oh my god look because
the first day you're like the food is
amazing
it's so buttery gross and it's like
being stuck on an apartment building
filled with drunks but you're all on the
roof and if you jump off the side you're
definitely dead yes it's like they're
feeding you the fattiest grossest but
tasty food yeah you know oh man we're
gonna get fat that's your move some
people just fuck it let's go all in but
I just recently lost 20 pounds all right
yeah I was due well my I was 226 and
that was fun especially I mentioned
earlier like to introduce ooh but the
fun just because you could pin people
down easier yeah more weight to throw
around I guess yeah it's easier though I
did like there's definitely been
benefits to losing weight that I
actually really like but my heart my
blood pressure and my cholesterol was
really high so what did you do well I
went to a nutrient well really I gain
that weight just from eating like an
idiot I had really bad eating habits and
I had no idea like I didn't know you
weren't supposed to eat a shit ton of
pasta before you go to bed like yeah and
I'm 43 hours how do you not know that I
make video games I do glory kills man I
woke up this morning with acid reflux
not really but like well felt gross
because I ate two tens of sardines last
night before I went to bed yeah so I'm
not smart either
I went to a nutritionist and she just
kind of coached me on like basic stuff
and it was remarkable how much weight I
lost just by not being you know stupid
you gotta just go to bed hungry yes
you're way better off going to bed
hungry than eating a big meal before you
go to bed but I come home from the
comedy store and it's late and no one's
home I just I've just become an idiot I
just start eating - that's exactly I'll
go right to sleep
I would crunch on the game and
like be at the office late come home and
told my wife would make something
amazing but I miss dinner and it's like
I want to fucking eat it looks awesome
yeah but that made me super fat and and
like it wasn't very but I was I was
working out a lot so it was actually
been doing jiu-jitsu so it it was fun
being of a larger size but I'm not
supposed to be that big like it wasn't
good that's my my numbers are all much
better now that's great and you just the
nutritionist what did she change I
basically I kept a food diary and she
read it and just laughed she's like
she's like you eat like you're 13 like I
work on things for thirteen year olds
that's it pretty much yeah and I just
really when I was a kid it was like
finish your food clean up your plate
wipe up every last bit watching my dad
he's Argentinean piles of fucking steak
you know like just I thought that's how
people ate and I'm supposed to eat yeah
but not at like 11 o'clock at night I
guess yeah I just don't think you're
supposed to eat and then go to sleep
it's just not I didn't do a vegan thing
I asked her that I was like should I not
eat she's like no I it's kind of the
basic stuff I eat the little bit of all
these food groups and I just eat in
moderation also when I moved to Texas
the Asian food scene there is amazing
and though really it's fucking amazing
if Dallas like what kind of Asian food
Vietnamese food is outrageous
the Taiwanese booth beef noodle beef
noodle soup is fucking which is like
Chinese ramen that's interesting that
it's in Dallas yeah I didn't know that
either
Dallas is culturally super diverse
jealous is a fucking great city it's
awesome it is a great city I was just
there two weeks ago the food is so good
and I love it there if it's bad for you
they have perfected it that's for sure
what my first week there I went to the
Texas Fair and I had fried pumpkin pie
with a scoop of ice cream and hot
chocolate and it was like the best
fucking thing I've ever had in my life
but it's so bad for you and so just
fried pumpkin pie it was it was good
they don't play games no the whole fair
is just fried stuff al fairs are
ridiculous yeah it's just going to
Affairs ridiculous just you're gonna get
fat just walking through the gates I did
you know did definitely put and then
honestly like
the work was so intense with walk by my
own doing I was so into making doom and
still am but that but I had to balance
it out like I think I was reaching a
milestone of like learning how to eat
better and sleep right like I was I was
just acting like I was still in college
and how many hours a day are you guys
working because when I was friends with
the ed guys back this was like quake
three before it came out like way back
then I was friends with those guys and
when I was doing gigs in Dallas I'd go
to its studios they showed me all the
stuff they told me yeah it was pretty
awesome
sure I'm embarrassed that I'm coming
here and I'm not good at quake so like I
was like shit
he's gonna totally give a garbage no
it's okay but you play with a controller
we should tell people you play with an
Xbox controller which is quite
embarrassing it is well I'm pretty good
with it though but how do you not use a
mouse and keyboard I do sometimes but
that's probably why you're not good at
quick well I quake Jamie and I were
bonding over this when quake came out I
was in art school and everybody was
using Apple products so right I like
literally no one I knew had a PC like
one dude and a dorm had PC and he'd go
there and he'd turn on doom and you're
like holy shit this is crazy but like I
mean I'm I was like an apple guy
hardcore so I just I just missed it you
know like that boat but I play now and
I'm okay i play i like playing pub gee i
mean you have to certain game you have
to play
you know mouse and keyboard and like pub
G and stuff like that but see me Arthur
our computers updated is everything's
updated we were ready to go you work in
the game industry I do a little I don't
say I'm not gonna play no I I'm saying
to all these kids out there that are not
good don't even start
oh no I will I will totally play I'm
just not we didn't make quake champions
I was made by another team but they did
do an awesome job we everything that
comes out of it is always gonna have a
certain level of quality so it's a
different team at it that made great
champions yes it was outsourced managed
by Tim Willits and then outsourced to I
believe Sabre and so will it's with them
now where as well will it's I believe is
with them but I'm gonna probably shout
out to Tim how are you buddy
yes I've seen that guy forever and and
he left a couple months ago I think but
he's retired
no I was on the beach he's with
now okay yeah like doing something
awesome I don't know I don't know
can't Ellis I don't even know to be
honest I just head down making didn't
get it so how many days a week you guys
working when you when you're in crunch
time
are you working six seven days a week on
this thing um it's not really crunch
it's funny I prepared for this interview
I watch all your video game interviews
and I know that crunch comes up a lot
but like the the the it's this is gonna
sound hokey it's I it's like a lifestyle
like I I live and breathe this you know
like no one makes me stay at the office
and even when I come home I see my kids
I do my thing and then I just do
research like it sounds ridiculous not
not unlike my diet but like my research
is that of a thirteen year old like I
play fucking video games and read comic
books and just engrossed myself in pop
culture because essentially what we do
is make pop culture content for that's
pop culture content you know I didn't
make sense but the so you just have to
like you know ingest a ton of it which
means that it's 24/7 I mean I get I get
up really early I try to do the exercise
thing I couldn't really fit in go and do
any kind of training or anything in the
afternoons because it was just family
and stuff so I try to do that in the
mornings and then I come home and put
the kids school and then I have like
about two hours where the house is empty
and I'll just play games you know so
you're training in real early though I
do it's horrible but I do the 6 a.m. one
which is fucking holy shit dude
yeah shove some in your mouth no not
anything I made that mistake I drank a
protein shake once before training that
was a fucking disaster holy shit
so I don't need anything I drink water I
didn't even - hell I was again I didn't
you knew nothing of nutrition so I was
like it's 5:30 and I got to be healthy
I'm gonna drink this and like you can't
train knee on belly I'm like dude this
is we're gonna have a serious fucking
problem in two seconds
yeah yeah it's the same thing with yoga
hot yoga I've tried to do it after
breakfast you literally can't do it I
usually I I'm tired too like so I'm I'm
pretty much just water you know and and
it's only an hour so I could kind of get
through it I don't know if this be
CAS are helping or not but I sometimes
put that in my water just because I CAS
branched-chain amino acids is that good
yes yes for sure yeah
good before you trained and after you
trained yeah and depending upon who you
ask you know there's a different
protocol just for a little extra juice
you know I don't know like to help
because I get a lot of muscle strains so
strains yeah like in my calves and stuff
like in with cramps what were you saying
I guess late taking any electrolytes I'm
they're going away because I'm hydrating
that was another thing the nutritionist
said was that I was probably dehydrated
way more than I realized
so I'm drinking water like and it's
actually working like I actually feel
like I'm getting less of those and I'm
also hungry less like one of her things
was that probably some of what my
cravings are for food is that I'm
actually thirsty so I'm now I like chug
a big glass of water and the cravings do
cut those 11 o'clock
cravings kind of subside a little bit
but yes I try to do it in the morning so
it's just super super rough you know
over the last couple of weeks last week
in particular but drinking a shitload of
water just to shit like last time last
night at the Comedy Store I must have
drank seven bottles of water which is
great until I got home I got up to pee
three times no the night last night I'm
like fuck yeah I'd wake up it's like
3:00 in the morning right I can't hold
it in no shit
I just kept doing it man three times I
got up to pee so you would agree that
just I mean obviously right just
drinking drinks a shit ton of water but
I believe in electrolytes I think
electrolytes are very important and I
think you should find a good company
that you know sells electrolyte so you
can pour into your water and we'll be
even have one that you would Rick I use
liquid IV it's a sponsor of the podcast
just for full disclosure but I actually
enjoy it and even if it wasn't a sponsor
I would absolutely use it it tastes good
you pour it in there it's got like a
salt a little bit of sugar and a lot of
electrolytes and it's just fucking
really good for you that's awesome
it's supposed to rehydrate you twice as
fast as water itself oh wow twice as
well as water itself that's that's
awesome yeah so I pour one of those into
into a bottle I like to do that before
our work
you know it's also something that gives
you like a you know a little bit of
calories not much but do you do anything
during like is that just water just so
the the electrolyte stuff for the BCA is
before or after but not during I don't
do it I mean maybe I'm wrong about that
I that I died I know the most I ever do
is if I'm training really hard like if
I'm doing something really crazy
then I'll then I'll drink something with
electrolytes while I'm working out like
a Gatorade or a Powerade or something
like that just to try to replenish yeah
about glucose levels is that good to
drink Gatorade while you're doing
exercise sure okay because I feel like
it is like I'm pretty exhausted I have
to be honest they have little bottles of
Gatorade I do get energy yeah yeah yeah
I mean there's I mean there's a reason
why athletes you drink it that's true I
don't know they're always drinking the
it's not that's the logos on the cup but
I'm like is that like some kind of
special power issue with things like
Gatorade or Powerade or any of those you
know sports drinks air quotes is if
you're not doing sports you shouldn't be
drinking I mean yeah it's like if you're
just laying around drinking Gatorade
there's a fuckload of sugar in that shit
but if you're running hills or if you're
rocking with like a 50-pound backpack on
and your goddamn exhausted well if you
drink one of those things it'll give you
some energy and it'll replenish some
electrolytes and give your body some
glucose there's some benefits to that
stuff
it's just when to use it where and why
you use it is what's important but
there's definitely benefits to taking
those sports drinks your facility out
there is fucking awesome it's pretty
dope you the bat's thing that those
clubs Club bells yeah that's pretty
crazy yeah I've never done any kettle
bells right I need to though
because I don't know that my I could
show you some of the stuff it's pretty
easy if you have like a lightweight
kettle bell you could learn it me really
should start with a light weight once
you don't hurt you so who's the guy who
works for you he's got the beard I met
him first Taylor Taylor I think he has a
black t-shirt on Jeff yeah Jeff
I shook his hand and I was like man my
goodness I think you've been tossing
around like he's just corn-fed seriously
is like a big old fellow dude yeah
they're big fellows the the great thing
about kettle bells or club bells those
clubs is that you're using your whole
body you know that's the thing about
those things it actually enhances your
athletic ability it enhances your
ability
sports particularly jiu-jitsu like
things like Turkish getup so ever do
Turkish get-ups
I was joking my friend yesterday so no
I've seen them I think if you put the
word Turkish in front of anything it
usually means it's pretty gnarly
so like sauna yeah Turkish bath Turkish
prison like Midnight Express wasn't that
a Turkish prison yes that is the
magnifier for everything yeah true but
I've never done one but that it did look
pretty serious there legit Turkish
get-ups one of my favorite exercises not
romantic it doesn't give you big pecs
but man for jujitsu it's a real real
game-changer and that's what the one
like like you have one leg out one leg
well you start off on your back you
start off laying on your back you you
press the kettlebell up and then you sit
up and then once you sit up you get one
leg under you and then you go up and
then you go all the way up stand
straight up and then drop all the way
back down you should watch a video
ideally should find a coach and have
someone correct all your form so that
you have it down and then you could do
it on your own but the beautiful thing
about that is like you could have a
kettlebell and you sit in your office
and just for five minutes just do
Turkish get ups for five minutes and do
it a couple times a day and it'll change
your body but change your core strength
and your shoulder strength and your
shoulder stability because you got this
thing overhead at the end of it and then
you're dropping it back down and you you
know resting your body back down and
starting all over again it's very
difficult exercise I'm I think working
with someone is what I need to do
because at 43 I'm finding that like like
I injure myself because I'm not
exercising correctly I clearly I'm not
doing anything correctly but the like
I'll try to do some extra stuff outside
of training to you know work on things
and it's always something and then when
you get when I get something it fucks
everything up for months like I did
something in my bicep and I couldn't do
half the shit I needed to do you know in
the morning a training like it was a
pain in the ass so actually I'm not
really doing anything anymore I do just
some basic simple shit but like simple
shit it's fun
like just bodyweight squats chin ups
push ups stuff like that that's it
well that sounds real good for you the
thing is like you're doing something
right because you got a
about all right yes so you
congratulations on that thank you also
you know you're doing jiu-jitsu that's a
fucking hard thing to do man it's like I
gotta do something because when I wasn't
doing it I got the the kids and the work
because the you know it is a lifestyle
but it's also a lifestyle that involves
sitting on your ass staring at a TV
screen yeah what kind of chairs do you
guys sit in the cube dude from getting
back pains
I don't really sit that much like from
the ending desk no I'm just walking the
whole fucking time like just walk into
this thing with that thing and then we
just have pretty basic desk but a lot of
people do standing desks for sure and
and I like those a lot to the I don't
have one but because again I don't
really sit anywhere specific I have an
office but I'm never in it but you're
always moving around talking to
different people about this and that
which is good because I when I sit for
too long my lower back I got like a
bulge and in the in the lower back area
I don't know and if I said too much it
kind of it kind of bugs me but everyone
who does jujitsu has something going on
with her back yeah I'm a little worried
about that cuz I found the thing that
you get the kids and before it I was
like you know roughhousing with them and
your fucking breathing heavy and it's
just like shit and so I'm like what can
I do I'm like I don't fucking like
basketball I think running sucks like I
don't want to just work out like you
know so I did this and it became a fun
engaging way to get healthy but it's a
game you know you're playing a game it's
like it cleans up everything like I
can't eat shitty food cuz I'm gonna feel
like shit on that so like it had this
ripple effect in my life that was
fucking amazing yeah and and and a
really healthy pursuit but the back
thing is that guaranteed that like but
this things you can do to mitigate it
and I'll show you some of the things we
have here a machine called the reverse
hyper unfortunately this just came up in
a podcast Esther as well a reverse hyper
machine which is a great machine for
strengthening your lower back and then
there's one of my sponsors is teeter
they make those inversion tables and
they have this thing called the decks
and it's like you you bend over it's a
de xx so it is just 1x and you bend over
at the waist and it's just like
decompresses your spine and relaxes
everything to just sell to you
afterwards social yeah yeah
I want to I want to keep doing it for
health reasons ya know I found something
that is a good add add something to my
life in a healthy way yeah I love it
it's it's awesome but it does beat you
up are you our fans or buts about it
I've seen you wearing your ghee and some
pictures are you wearing your gegen and
training more with your gear did you
always train with your ghee or like well
I trained with the ghee and no I have a
black belt on both I know but like I'd
seem I could be completely wrong it
seemed like you were doing a lot of
noogie noogie yeah
but lately it seems like you're wearing
the ghee again but I could be completely
wrong no I I think both are good I think
there's nothing wrong with the gate
think what the gate teaches you is
defensive posture is you defensive
techniques better because you can't pull
out of everything so you have to do
everything with proper technique you
can't just because when everything gets
slippery and snowy you just pull out of
stuff sure but you can't do that if
someone has a hold your sleeves and
they'll get their fists fully wrapped in
they're like you're not getting now and
then you're just gonna get deeper in you
gotta use technique you gotta use the
proper defense do you have a preference
or just it's all good I think both are
good I think both are good look if you
live in a place where people are wearing
winter coats learning how to fight with
Aggie is great yeah yeah you know you
grab a coat I mean a coat is like a
weapon that a person is wearing on them
you used their own code against I saw a
great podcast clip with you and Guy
Ritchie and you were staring at his tie
and you were like salivating cuz yes
I sell people but if you have a tie you
should have like a Velcro thing in the
back just take a nice Chi
put it on tighten it up and then snip
the back and then so in some velcro so
it seals up like this so that if you
could just someone Yanks on your neck
just pull that tire yes that's the
paranoid button your collar itself right
yeah good shirt collar you could choke
someone with that you know you didn't as
ii kiyul joke with that I like the
community leaves you could use your own
sleeves you can mean collar choking
someone one of those jokes with a good
like stiff dress shirt College hook is
tell me where the dress shirt on that
would be pretty totally good yeah with a
book with a jacket like a leather coat
the person's a dead man
like if you had a street fight with a
judo player and you're wearing a leather
jacket good luck yeah you're gonna get
thrown in your head our head instructor
does a lot of judo stuff and his fucking
grip is oh my oh my goodness they have
crazy core strength - those guys have
crazy upper body and core strength
because they're so used to just yeah
everything is throwing you in but you
like when they're demoing and they grab
your collar and you're just like what
the fine like I'll never get this off
hands legs yeah a lot of them what they
do is they take keys or towels and they
throw it over a chin-up bar and they do
chin-ups by just holding onto the towel
or holding onto the game there's a wiry
like every muscle is like taut with
those guys you know like it's crazy even
if they look skinny like you could you
taught you like they grab ahold of
you're like holy shit well you look at
their hands and you see their knuckles
oh my god named yeah every knuckle like
sticks out that far
let's you see it a lot of with jiu-jitsu
guys that's the truth like the ears
totally telltale sign don't fuck with
that guy but if the knuckles are fucked
up you should just do whatever that
person says like have you seen megaton
Diaz his hands dude holy shit they're
like I mean see if you find an image of
megaton Diaz is that arthritis is that
what this so is he like
so he's in he's in pain well I want I
don't know I mean you'd have to ask him
but goddamn oh dude that guy will rip
your neck right off oh my god well them
Steven Seagal movies he could do it for
real like house I was just gonna say
that my favorite movies like that scene
where he does that guy that bad guy he's
fucking crazy like he's just like used
to movies so good in all the worst ways
daddy look at the megaton Diaz his hands
yeah his knuckles so that's just one
image of him there's a bunch of images
of him with his knuckles yes his hands
are just gnarly and I mean there's a lot
a lot of jiu-jitsu guys like that you
know what is so I've been said a million
times they are also the community around
it is that's another part that I really
fell in love with cuz it's it's like dad
Jitsu where I go like we all want to get
in shape and there's younger guys who
really athletic and old we have a one
woman who's 72 because she's her son is
there and her son's a fucking beast and
he fucking did this to me
but the the it's just awesome like we're
all trying to get healthy and we're
learning shit and we're helping each
other like it's yeah it's fucking great
dude I love it yeah it's a it's an
awesome way to exercise I'm wondering if
one day they're going to be able to
figure out some sort of a virtual
reality learning game that's one things
that I talked with Carmack about I was
like I see cuz Carmack has done some
martial arts himself and I was like I
see he's actually very good at judo and
yeah - and he's really apparently he
choked somebody out at the office once I
think the person asked for it but
there's some story of like they wanted
to see if John could do it and he was
like ok ok I'll choke you out now yeah
yeah I spoke I worked I overlapped with
him by like a month and he said one
thing to me and was pretty cool he told
me not to put greats in the game because
they don't look good and I was like yes
sir that will never happen
greats it's something to do I'm like
great so you would run on something with
greats when you look at them at an angle
they like doing all the tech guys right
now are like Jesus you go like it's very
specific but yeah he just told me not to
do that and and I was like I will not
that's all he told you yes he was super
nice you know I didn't know I know it's
a you know like I had no reason I don't
wanna bother look at that's me and him
that is awesome yeah he is that dude's
legit the founders of it with John
Romero that guy like I mean I really
feel like we're standing on the
shoulders of geniuses when we make this
game like the a lot of what makes doom
eternal good is is what they did in
their game like the one the rocket
launcher is such a well-balanced weapon
in the original doom game and we took a
lot of inspiration from that and that
fucking characters are so well designed
the kooky and the Cacodemons and the
sounds they make the game still holds up
to this day it does like straight
fucking legit geniuses even with the
clunky old-school graphics it's still
very immersive it's it's actually adds
to the charm because when you look at it
now it just looks like a fucked up
Saturday morning cartoon seriously it's
like something they would make on Adult
Swim you know yeah well quake 1 became a
big hit
even after quake 2 and quick 3 a lot of
guys want
back to quake 1 yeah because it was like
a faster game and it was like and a lot
of times guys actually cut all the
textures out anyway yeah so they could
see everything yeah which is really
weird
I just last year played through quake 1
single-player and quake 2 single-player
campaign with mouse and keyboard yes you
would be very proud but I didn't play
the multiplayer but the I actually am
going to just become awesome at quake
champions I really I'm down very often
part of my research like when I play is
to I have to achieve unwanted like I
have to reach mastery in a game to
understand the fun part of the research
that you have to do when you're
designing a game when you play other
games to remain so that we understand
like how other games are working
successfully or not is to play them long
enough to achieve mastery so you really
you feel that addiction you feel that
engagement level and you like ok I know
how they did this I know I know what I'm
feeling right now did you bring in you
take like professional gamers and bring
them in a consultation say how do you
how do you feel about this
absolutely watch and certainly we talked
to them but it's it's dangerous because
if you absolutely but it's kind of like
would you want Michael Jordan designing
the next sports game like it's kind of
like he can tell you he it's sort of
like the the guy who builds the race car
might not be the best guy to drive it
like hold on here's what's wrong without
analogy you're talking about Michael
Jordan in a game I'm talking about game
players now if you bring in game players
to tell you about a game is a good idea
bring in Michael Jordan and tell you how
to play a video game based on basketball
probably not the best idea
no definitely not wait we do we talk to
them but absolutely but point making was
just that like you could fall into a
little bit of a trap it's absolutely
part of the process it's the smart thing
to do again like if you're building a
race car you go talk to race car drivers
and say like how does it feel what do
you think like well this is loose that
feels odd ok we'll go fix it you know so
how does a game like June maternal start
does it start with it starts with a
meeting you say hey we are thinking
about doing this what do you think and
then how does he get the green light how
does a game like that get going we have
from the very
beginning yes we have a green light I've
been there for seven eight years so what
happens we have a green light process
where we put together an overall idea
Marty and myself you know work very
closely at Marty is the studio director
and executive producer shout out
tomorrow he's awesome he's he's the boss
he is the shit know what you guys say
like someone comes up with a car so what
are we gonna do for our next weekend we
talk like it's you know making games is
fuckin awesome like it's it is this the
fucking coolest like I can't believe
that this is my job
blanket yes that's what everyone wants
there's you stick a dynamite and a
crowbar wouldn't get rid of me and
fucking it software like I can't get
enough of making doom games but you hit
the Jack the jackpot it's like what
people want to do for a living is do
something where you go to work you I
can't believe this is my job oh so
that's why when I go to play and to do
the work I'm like I'm not fucking
working right seriously you know like
that's awesome so that which can get a
little out of hand I guess sometimes but
the the in terms of like balance and
like doing other things and like get up
and exercise or do something um but yeah
me and Marty we talked quite a bit and
and it's it's it's commercial art you
know it's it's a business and art and
and creativity coming together and we
have the schedule and and we have to
work out the budgets and stuff like that
but ultimately we begin with like a
conversation about like what it is we
want to do we're talking all the time he
and I about stuff and then we talked to
other you know people on the team but
essentially it begins with the executive
producer and the director of the project
getting together and talking then we
work very closely with our publisher and
you start to formulate a plan and and we
had a plan and a good one for doom
eternal and it's cool because we just
recently had a meeting with our
publisher where we were able to bring up
some of the things that we talked about
three years ago and they are working now
which is a good sign like you are
pivoting a lot during development for
sure like okay that didn't work let's
try something else but and what what do
you base it on it didn't feel fun to do
it didn't look cool you yeah we call it
just steering into things yeah but that
feels good steer into that that feels
good steer into that you're always
steering into the fun like you let the
game tell you what it wants once there's
enough of it on
Table two you know to judge so what are
the first processes like when you say
okay you got the green light it's time
to make a game what's the first things
that get done is it design do you sort
of design what the players look like is
it the coding it's like everything I
mean they begin the engine all the
different processes unique engine are
you using an existing engine and this is
very good questions for Marty the
executive producer but yes they they
begin making the engine based on what
they want to do next and the goals there
and that has to like the this is the
engine of the race car and we're
discussing the kind of race car we want
to make so we should explain to people
what we're talking about we're talking
about a 3d engine this yes often times
what happens is like say another
videogame can license your 3d engine and
use it with different graphics to make
other games and that's a common thing
yes the 3d engine is what we're talking
about which is every game has a
different feel it's like some people
like when during the quake days some
people were really into unreal right the
remember that game epic games and they
were like this game has a different
engine I love the way this engine feels
yes you know because they all have
different sort of car maxixe
made some good fucking engines yeah he's
a smart guy well he recognized the
balance of speed too like like real
world physics versus this sort of
cartoonish shit like what's what's the
fun balance it seems like quake three
was like a really fun balance whereas
quake 2 was a little slower quake 1 was
way crazier way faster but was didn't
look as cool what is your favorite
champions
that's offense is the best hit Tim it's
the best that's awesome it's the best
it's everything week yeah it's
everything in quake but ramped up I
don't like all that stupid shit like
when lizard spit on you and it's poison
your run through it like that yeah weak
but but the the weapons are really well
balanced and the maps are amazing and
the graphics are off the charts the
graphics are so cool like while you're
playing it like what did the the it's
crazy and the artists are so amazing I
mean the work they do is so inspiring
that's the coolest thing like you you
love what you do you
the medium that you work in I'd feel so
fortunate because and I speak for all of
us at the team we fucking love the type
of game we make I mean you just saw it
dude it's so it's fucking absurd it's
like an r-rated psycho cartoon but it's
not it's not mean-spirited that's what I
really liked about it like it's it's
it's kind of it's cool it's like fun
it's fun fun that was actually our main
focus again you're killing demons like
that's it fine it's just like Walking
Dead you're allowed to kill the zombies
the whole feel bad the whole purpose is
to make something we talked about quite
a bit like the emotional response of the
consumer like how you feel when you play
something and we want you to smile like
certain games they want you to be scared
which is good survival horror games
someone I'm on my heels I'm like oh my
god you know what's around the corner in
doom we want you on your toes smiling
like just fucking barreling forward like
what am I gonna murder next like where
is it you know and but it's it's uh it's
it's frivolous and it's fun and it's
junk food but that as we say there is
quite a bit of nutritional content in
there like it's it's a smart game is
there any pushback against these kind of
games like when you guys produce a game
like this or create a game like this is
there any where people are like this is
too violent this is awful this is not
really because it's not against humans
like we it and it's not there's no
agenda like it's not I guess yeah we we
don't really deal with that because
you're murdering cartoonish looking
fucking demons you know and and dude
believe me like we take it full
advantage of that like like I said yes
we straight-up Stephens the goal these
motherfuckers right and ahead like it's
awesome and and I use a Steven Seagal
anymore and definitely don't use it as a
verb I it's way more violent than any
Seagal movie but that is true but but
like I always got a kick out of his
hyperextending of the limo yes yeah in
that one in particular that glory killed
- we were like there's a there's a
there's one posing animation where you
hold out his armor he's like because
that's like always do what I'm holding
out hope for is some sort of oculus
version of doom or quake or something
like that
where you have like a unidirectional
treadmill and you're locked into it
you've seen those things right
omnidirectional that was called yeah
omnidirectional treadmill there's a doom
VFR which is pretty cool like they made
it and it did really well actually
and really yeah yeah it was it but yum
VFR have you heard of it Jerry
I have it but I haven't not played it
cuz it came in my little cycle of like
kidding where I couldn't stand up for a
long period of time
Oh your back issue yeah yeah yeah Jamie
broke his butt weak kind of Renuka group
we removed those things from the office
the thing that he hurt himself on oh the
hoverboards oh my goodness yeah so one
minute people are laughing check this
out next minute some dudes ankle is just
straight fucking and hanging off his leg
so this is the VR version of doom yes it
is pretty goddamn good and so how are
you moving around you're teleporting
just like yeah but how are you walking I
think that's it I think just teleport
you standstill like I didn't I didn't
work on this so I don't oh you know
Jamie like how are you going through
over there there's a little line that
shoots out that's like where you're
teleporting - yeah oh so you steep this
work I can't move I mean that's how they
had it a couple years old now so they've
figured out some new things oh well the
graphics look dope but if you're just
teleporting to each spot and then
standing still and punching people
that's ridiculous
yeah that's how you do it huh and then
you go forward well I'm not doing it
justice - because I didn't work on this
so I can really tell you how the
movement actually it's obvious it's
pretty it's pretty obviously that's what
you do you're teleporting with that
green bolt have you ever um you know
what sandboxes if you're fucked with
that 9 box VR no it's really cool
there's um there's a company in Woodland
Hills there's a studio in Woodland Hills
and there's another one there's a couple
of them around the LA area but anyway
you put a haptic feedback vest on you
put a helmet VR everything plastic guns
and then you go and fight things and
there's one where you go and shoot this
one's great this one is called welding
mansion was it called so they have one
of these in Schenck zombies yeah I want
to it's the shit yeah that's really fun
rats come out you got a gun
rats down so you are in this room and
like this is see they keep cutting back
for what what is actually happening what
the people see sure when you're there
live and you see it it's fucking killer
it's really cool that is fun and they're
getting better at these things they have
like sort of that characters go that's
the boss that comes and gets you
Deadwood mansion that's that one I love
that one that's awesome
there's a star track game there's um
there's quite a few of them I think they
have four or five different little
experiences that you can do that's all
really fun
well I have a Star Wars what perhaps the
voids different yeah I've done the Star
Wars one that's at Disneyland at
Disneyland
downtown Disneyland before you get to
the park you could go and do the void
ride which is actually better than any
of the rides in Downtown Disney or in
Disneyland itself is that the one with
the avatar flying the necron or whatever
the hell those things are called in
Avatar world when you're flying on the
thing that is in Disney World
okay not Disneyland Disneyland is la la
for land but Disney World in Orlando has
this thing called flights of passage
which is fuckin amazing it's the
greatest
they're called absolutely the greatest
ride eeeek runs I think yeah you ride
when those dragons in Avatar that's
incredible I would love to do a VR thing
where you're like one of the colonial
Marines from aliens to like running
through it that'd be fucking awesome
when they're coming out the goddamn
walls yeah you could do something like
that
Hudson that's my that's my hope for the
future is that games are like that and
you're actually gonna be able to
exercise doing that because I think that
if you had a game where you're in a
warehouse and you're actually running
for your life again you know and demons
are chasing you and shooting down things
like your heart rate would be jacked you
could do that for an hour and get a sick
workout in and have an amazing good time
that would be awesome you can get in
great shape running from demons you
would I wouldn't have to get up so early
in the fucking morning
think about this game if you could play
this game but you could play this game
in a warehouse where you know you have
all of the boxes and all those stairs
they're all real stairs in real boxes
yeah yeah you're
running around this pre-designed map and
you're actually engaging with these VR
demons with a haptic feedback so fucking
glory killing them back their parts they
really into this glory killing but the
really problem with is calling it glory
killing is it sounds too much like glory
hole does insect right Jamie they have a
new ride that got announced today for I
guess out here Disneyland a new Marvel
Comics Avengers campus is gonna be
opening up in the summer they have a
disc or a spider-man ride where it
sounds like you put on a 3d a headset I
think just goggles in somehow they're
tracking your hands so during the ride
you shoot things for points oh and then
there's a spiderweb and there's a leader
vet's office inside the ride for like
weekly daily and monthly stuff the the
the level of sophistication going on
with the games whether your mouse and
keyboard or controller though it would
be hard to achieve in VR I think VR
offers like a very specific unique and
fucking amazing experience and I would I
would just like separate the two like
you know when when when when we're
making VR games we're definitely trying
to do something else which is cool and
of itself and in and of itself but
there's like not only just in our game
but in a lot of games like there's just
resource management there's like high
level skill meta shit happening I mean
you know you play fucking quake so like
you know that that's hard to reproduce
in VR in certain ways at least at this
time but but I think that's the thing
like they want it happens a lot in games
where people want to take how you feel
or how a movie engages you and apply it
to a game and I think it's like let it
game be its own it let it game be a game
let a movie be a movie let VR or be its
own fucking experience like that looks
fucking awesome like but yeah if we just
yeah so so there's still oh yeah I would
love to kill you know Dean I we have the
VR game I should just play it but what I
what I'm saying is like if someone made
a doom where
will you guys take a 14 thousand
square-foot warehouse just outfit it
specifically for doom you got a line
around the block of psychopath
waiting a platter thank you an hour I
mean seriously especially somewhere like
Texas where there's a bunch of
warehouses like you know yes some
warehouse district where you can get
three or four of them and set them up
for different maps in the game that'd be
fucking awesome damn man I mean they're
real close to being able to do something
like that where it would be really
accurate to where you could have like a
laser sight on your rifle and you yeah
yeah see things through the goggles and
I'd be fucking bad-ass although it is
it's it's it's lame I was not lame you
know Carmack can do anything he wants
but he's doing AI now like he's not
doing VR anymore I heard I heard he was
just consulting with oculus but now he's
pursuing AI will this be honest he's too
smart he's from another planet how many
lawn muskie get together and share notes
yes yes they're both super wizards yes
totally he's I mean I'm sure he feels
challenged by AI yeah and you know he
likes a challenge he's a very
interesting guy to talk to - I really
enjoyed talking to him yeah he is
awesome and you really think about what
he's accomplished in the world of video
games I mean he's the Mac Daddy amazing
yes he's the the guy who started it all
really the if you enjoy 3d games that's
the guy that's why working at it
software and he totally is the guy and
along with the rest of him - like Romero
and those guys like the that group fuck
that should I know him do you know John
Romero I've met him a couple times you
know daikatana game he took a lot of
shit for that game that was a fun game
yeah yeah it took way too long and there
was a lot of bugs in it and all that
good stuff but dude I played it when it
came out I was like this game is fuckin
badass it and yeah I mean that guy is -
all of them they're there they're like
the Beatles you know it was like
daikatana was like the physics of quake
1 but with the graphics of that era see
if you find a video of daikatana in-game
it was a fun
and I was like this might catch on but
people were down on it before it ever
came out there's so much shit talk about
it because it took so long and cost so
much money and they had these giant
offices in Dallas with this huge
penthouse yeah they're spending so much
money
I personally think they some of the best
work that they yeah it's this is a this
image right here is dark yeah this is
not the best video in terms of like what
you're able to see in-game stuff yeah
there was a lot of hype and certainly
this is another other video because
that's like so dark can't see anything
is that it yeah I was lying
yeah on the internet I think the best
work that they did was when they were
all together yeah like keeping the band
together mm-hmm that honestly it's
making games is definitely a team sport
and and you got to have everybody
working together really well if you want
to pull it off but you also have to have
like Division one pro athletes oh yeah
Pro you know I mean rockstar vision ones
on a good I did like your if you're
gonna make it game you need everybody to
be a the same level of dedication same
level of hardwork there's a rock stars
yeah one of the siz it this is why is he
have a sword I never saw this usually
it's like what is this I don't think
this is the game dude I could tell no no
this is not it might be I know it's a
mod I mean maybe it's a mod I never saw
it like that what I saw was a lot of
cool rocket launch like this is one
rocket launcher that would shoot and it
would come out like DNA strands shara
shara the rocket with like two Rockets
would twist at the same time they go
back and forth yeah this is what the
game looked like it's just just really
dark for some for whatever reason huh
maybe like some levels you get a sword I
never saw it I never saw this either
this looks weird I think this is the
game though yeah I think so too
I've been fucking forever since I've
played it I know there Romero
is what we're making which is a huge
compliment what is he up to now I don't
know he lives in Ireland I think what
yeah I think so
and and but when I met him he was a
super nice guy I met Adrian Carmack at a
bar in Texas which was fucking awesome
and and it was funny because he started
telling me like well if you guys are
gonna make it you know we were in
production on doom eternal he's like if
you guys gonna make a doom game here's
what we thought we made doom and
everything he listed we were all like
that's what we think you know like he's
like we just did stuff that made us
laugh and made a smile I'm like that's
what we say you know like it was cool he
was super nice so it to me it's software
is kind of like Disney like they
invented a genre and we are part of the
new generation there and we have a
legacy to live up to like yeah it's the
it's a really special place to work a
tremendous amount of I don't want to say
pressure but we're all motivated
yeah well it's it's you know you're
working at the highest spot that's like
yeah if you go if you think it's like if
it's rap you're at Death Row Records you
know I mean you're like at the highest
spot and the coolest thing is like the
type of games that they have always made
just they they are able to get away with
things and a lot of mainstream Triple A
games struggle with just because of how
violent it is I mean they are like again
it's it's Evil Dead 3 where the
transformers budget like who the fuck
gets to make that like you know like we
those the shit you see we spent a
shitload of time making that stuff
whereas like in a lot of situations I've
been in it's like yeah we want to cut
this dude an - like not a lot of money
for that dude so do it pretty fast you
know like we're like there are artists
like craftsman you know working on the
entrails like it looks pretty good and
we're and literally the notes you're
like I need like the intestine to kind
of like flap a little when you get the
thing off you know like and it's how do
you know if you've crossed the line is
there is there ever been a time when you
have a scene and people like dial that
back we we actually tonally you know you
say how do you start the project it's
it's kind of like there's a fair amount
of brainstorming and the strengths of
any creative team is at least for a game
is how you brainstorm with each other
it's the synergy in that room has to be
good you got to be selfless you got to
show up you got to be willing to support
other ideas other people's ideas just
much your own we have fucking amazing
group in there
but tonally we try to establish that to
like look guys we're not making saw
we're not making hostel it's not
malicious it's not meant to make you
cringe and we actually cut together a
little video of like what we thought
violence wise was inappropriate and
tonally felt off and then we made
another video of what felt right and
that was Evil Dead 2 with like it's not
a slow trickle of blood out of a sliced
open wrist it is some dudes head came
off and Hawaiian Punch just starts
fucking shooting out of his head you
know like that's really what it is like
it's cartoonish you know and violence it
goes so far that you because the thing
is you do this so much so often I mean
you were murdering demons per minute
like I don't know what it is but it's
fucking crazy if it was off-putting and
realistic and kind of like ooh you'd be
so turned off it'd be sick like you
didn't make you sick after a while but
so kind of weird we're looking at it I
don't think you're right what you're
doing is like super gory and disgusting
you think somehow or another that will
make you less sick well it was more
realistic and less bloody oh for sure I
mean Chad's totally we could we could
twist that where every one of those is
mean-spirited and really off-putting for
sure I mean I don't want you to sell me
some PR stuff to sort of defend your
game against people that are anti
violence because that's what it sounds
like what you're doing is super bloody
and disgusting and violent to say that
somehow no that that is less off-putting
then less gory is pretty it's a
ridiculous argument I don't want you
using it here or anywhere else well it's
Joseph it is not I this is no PR this is
this is legit sounds like you've been
coached no no no like this this is my
message to the team I mean sincerely
like okay you're coaching them well
because they make the content so like
think of this alright I good I like this
because this is the fucking truth so you
look at saw you look at torture porn
horror movies there they're cutting
achilles tendons with a fucking exacto
knife and the dude is screaming in pain
and he's a person like this is gnarly
shit he doesn't look like he's having a
good time like verses on Evil Dead 2
when you lop off the head of that one
grandma creature that comes up out of
the basement and
fucking buckets of blood start coming
out of her head right people cartoonish
so like it's it's critical Z row PR spin
that is we have to believe that because
look your design story is going to be
exposed to the to the consumer in two
fuckin seconds like they can see through
your bullshit in five seconds if they're
like dude you're trying to sell know
like so we have to have an honest good
design story that we can stand behind
that is true and that that is the truth
I mean we basically looked at like
cartoons and like make it over-the-top
the animation so every time here's a
perfect example every time you murder a
Cacodemons which is those flying balls
so you pull out their eyeball what does
it call the caca a caki demon a caca
what's the CAC CAC CAC oh oh CAC kids
you have kids right I do have three kids
Kaakha Kaakha demon it's a poopoo demon
sure the so every time you pull out his
eyeball you literally hear like oh I
can't do it but yeah like a like a funny
cartoony sound and that is absolutely
intentional to take the edge off what
you're doing because if it was more
gruesome and they're like it's the
Exorcist versus evil dead - those are
totally two completely different movies
you know House house was a movie that
came out in the 80s that was inspired by
Evil Dead that's like a fucking comedy
it made it is a comedy and and it's a
horror comedy versus The Exorcist which
is fucking amazing fucking amazing but
really very serious you know and that's
that's how we're able to do what we do
okay stop selling it I'm selling the
violence thing I get it I see what
you're saying
what is this a caca demon that's a caki
demon it's caca that's poo poo looks
like poop they give like if you had a
demon shit that's what it would look
like like oh no tearing you up on the
way out what is that an original one
that is the original caki demon from the
original doom yes oh cool so it's an
updated version of that but you know
just more graphically intense yes so
when you do something like this and you
release this game obviously there'll be
patches and some upgrades and some
different things that you do but how
long how long do you
work on this game before you guys move
on to the next thing we're already
moving on I don't want to say the next
thing that is APR answer because I'm not
allowed to say that but the you have
ideas ideas certainly and and DLC the
DLC is guaranteed like what is that it's
basically like a small episode of doom
that we would sell called DLC
downloadable content I below it that
sounds think that anyone would know what
we were talking about ID I'm so used to
Jamie but Jamie's a super nerd I'm so
used to the gaming convention to speak
but yes it is down like it's like an
episode like we made the movie and now
we're gonna release like an HBO series
of it okay so you'll have this game and
then you'll have a bunch of other ones
that are based off the same engine same
characters different journeys different
things that'll come up well all centered
around the doom guy yeah yeah but yeah
basically the adventures of doom guy and
how long do you do that for before you
move on to the next game it's hard to
say you know certainly we're always kind
of dual tracking things and talking and
you know always you know because you
never know when the cool idea is gonna
come along and you're kind of jotting
down notes I always have kind of my
notepad out there's thinking about stuff
like as I'm I mean you never know when
it's gonna something cool you know
you're playing something or you see
something or watch something so and then
we keep those conversations going on the
side and see how it goes so is there any
do you guys like keep your eye open for
like where VR is headed and things like
that and go well not yet we're not ready
for that yet but one day down the road
we'll have something like that kind of a
different again like we're like it's
sort of like with cars I went to school
for automotive design and right yeah I
would wind up in videogames uh just
because I love videogames you know the
the training in automotive design have
you ever been Art Center no it's dude
you should fucking go it's fucking where
is it it's in Pasadena and it's okay
it's like the Harvard of design schools
like it's a me and they do cars there
and products but yeah the car is that
they haven't display you know the big
clay models about that big they're
fucking amazing and and really really
amazed
place you know the design process that
you learned there you can apply to kind
of anything why would you say anything
but a lot of things certainly a video
game for sure because it's just kind of
it's actually the questions you're
asking which is like how do you start
from nothing to something you know like
that involves large groups of people and
you kind of learn that there I forgot
your original question but oh yeah no
it's like you know so I use a lot of car
analogies at the office quite a bit and
and it's kind of like we make a race car
and and if VR is something else that's
like an SUV that's like just another
kind of car so like we kind of perfected
how to make race cars and it's been
doing it since the 90s so like doom
eternal is just another race card and
and affluence and what you're saying I'm
just thinking that as augmented reality
and then virtual reality become more and
more accessible to consumers I'm
wondering you know like where video
games are headed I'm wondering if you if
you think that's where they're heading
there's always going to be a place for
them on an actual video game I think an
actual computer rather I think they'll
always be a place for them in the actual
video game I think the the that's where
my focus is other people like Carmack
are looking to see where well not
anymore but where video games were going
to go next but I am fully focused on
where they are now and how to make what
they are now better well professing man
you guys did a fucking amazing job it
looks really cool thank you really fun
and I'm sure people gonna waste massive
chunks of their life and get a
tremendous amount of entertainment out
of it
I I hope so anything else to tell us we
can go play now oh really yeah that
quake champions yeah anything else I
don't I don't think so I don't know so
it's out oh it's a March March 20th yes
doom eternal coming out March 20th so
not long folks get your sweaty little
hands ready and we'll be available for
PC Xbox everywhere yeah time all the
platforms everything you know I
absolutely yeah all right beautiful Full
Tilt alright man well thanks for being
here appreciate you thank you very much
for doing what you do it's you've wasted
a lot of people's time yeah it's awesome
thank you very much bye everybody
[Music]